what happens when you turn off an
economy for three years and try to start
it up again well in the case of china it
doesn't go very well I'm going to show
you why they are going and moving
towards deflation and potential collapse
at this very moment and how it's going
to spell disaster for the rest of the
world potentially as we move into the
next stage we are in a momentum right
now of weakening of lesser growth than
was expected and that has put additional
pressure on the central bankers and on
the governments to take on more debt try
to finance this debt and at the same
time not cause a recession you got a
problem right in front of you and I'm
going to show you all the details right
here right now let's begin here we have
it China slides into the brink of
deflation adding stimulus urgency the
CPI was zero percent year over year in
June that's the lowest in more than two
years producer price the inflation deep
into the worst since December of 2015 so
imagine that's their data who knows what
the real numbers are you look around the
world and you see that these statistics
are always manipulated in their favor so
we could even expect that it is worse
than this we never really know that's
the number they provide us with and you
could see the definite Trend that shows
us there there is a significant reason
to worry here and now but we're going to
talk about what the changes are for you
as an individual and your family you
would like to know that because
everything that goes on in China does
have an impact where you live maybe it's
in Europe maybe it's in the US or Canada
this is very impactful to you you got to
understand this and I'll tell you why
here in just a second China's inflation
rate eases to zero you could see that
this is both the PPI that's the producer
price index and the CPI for consumers
and that has of course declined we've
seen a lot of that this has been a real
mixed bag when you look at what's going
on in China because it depends on what
sector you're looking at and so on but
overall they've got some serious
problems here and now and that's what
goes on when you lock down for this long
as well as the fact that they were
expected to grow continuously no matter
what and no country can do that there
are always going to be bumps in the road
there are always going to be issues and
I talk about this from all sides I know
people want to have just one perspective
but I'm only going to cover what I see
and bring you the facts China's consumer
inflation rate was flat in June while
Factory gate prices fell further fueling
concerns about deflation risks and
adding to the speculation about a
potential economic stimulus and that's
something
that I believe uh was not discussed
enough over the last while the risk of
deflation is very real you got to
understand what happened 2020 hits all
of these countries around the world what
did they do what do they do well of
course we know that they started adding
massive stimulus the most stimulus we've
ever seen in history in the case of
china they didn't do that they locked
down but at the same time they had so
much economic output because everybody
was ordering all of these things the
factories were ordered were just on
order constantly they couldn't get
anything people that were making the raw
materials the factories and things raw
materials they were needed more than
ever before their Imports in China were
going up too because they had to
manufacture so much shipping was going
crazy they couldn't get enough all of
that was exported to all these countries
but how many pairs of Lululemon pens do
you need they were just like sitting on
Millions upon Millions upon millions of
these Lululemon pens and I get it they
wanted to order more because the
shipping was having delays and stuff but
then all of that started sitting in
warehouses in the United States China's
Warehouse actual inventory levels
started surging that was a factor that's
going on right now at the same time
we're seeing the same thing in the
United States okay you've got all these
retail establishments closing down but
at the same time you're seeing
inventories rise big problem that's a
big signal look for this for you the
individual quick little tip inventory
levels but understand why that inventory
is rising
is it an expectation that they're about
to sell that or is it that they can't
sell that is one very big indicator of
the consumer not the dollar they always
want to show you how much the consumer
is spending that doesn't work because
inflation as they you know as you see it
right now all the prices are going
higher of course you're going to be
spending a lot of money because
everything costs more but if you look at
inventory levels those start to climb
you know people aren't buying what they
did before so that's the tidbit I want
to share with you right now give you
some value let's move on I want to give
you this as well
you could see the leader of China and
getting serious on boosting private
sector as economy slumps Chinese leader
has vowed to treat foreign investors
better positive signals come as China's
post-2020 recovery Flags so this is
important as well because the whole
world it wants to put more money into
China at least you know maybe not right
now but overall the overall trend is if
you open up we're going to bring money
in there but this has scared them
locking down for this period of time now
the business are saying I don't know I'm
going to open up maybe my business maybe
a few operations I'll do that in Vietnam
I'll do that in India yeah I get that
but now What's Happening Here
is they need to open up because they
need that foreign investment but the you
know the country has to make guarantees
to these investors or money isn't going
to flow in it's just not going to happen
but if they start to say that okay you
know you're Apple let's say you want to
own that factory you want to own the
supply chain you want to do it all on
you you don't want government
intervention in there in any way you
know the way it works is the companies
need to have like basically a
representative inside of those
businesses that you know the way it
works I mean they can control it they
can have the you know the final say and
all these things
the companies don't like that especially
if they're you know a foreign company of
course not they want to have control
they want to say you know what I don't
want that I want to operate outside of
that country and uh so obviously that
needs to change in order for that
foreign Capital so if China wants to
grow they're going to need to open up
that's what I'm saying to you here
because you can't just do stimulus
inside of the country if they do watch
out because as all of these other
countries were doing stimulus China
didn't need to do that they started to
reverse but they're only doing a small
amount in the event that they go wild
watch inflation and then not in a good
way okay they're looking for inflation
but my goodness a 28 billion dollar wave
of selling pressure in in perils China
stocks cash is locked up in Chinese
mutual funds and faces redemptions
investors are already frustrated over
losses despite long lockups and so
that's what's going on right now we're
going to see some serious selling
pressure as soon as you open the
floodgates I've seen this myself by the
way where there's been some you know
companies that say okay we're going to
lock this whole fund up we're not going
to allow that fund to open because we're
we know that people are going to start
to sell so we just say okay no more
redemptions and then of course the
investors are so angry they're so angry
because they thought it was liquid but
it's not remember that any fund is not
is never liquid it's only up to the
discretion of that who controls it so
they would say okay but a year later
you're going to be able to pull some of
that money oh it gets to a certain level
will allow investors to pull a billion
dollars out as soon as it gets to a
billion they cut that off
now you gotta wait to a future date you
don't know this is happening right now
in China showing extreme weakness inside
the financial sector as well let me give
you some other stats you can see the CPI
and the PPI ppi is widening big time
which which does suggest that the CPI
then follows it okay that's important so
that means that we can get much more
deflation in the next month or two or
three let's keep an eye on that stay
tuned to the channel hit that like
button at least it's right next to the
Subscribe button which will basically
notify you when all this data is coming
out I'm going to bring it to you so just
hit that okay look at this you could see
the unemployment rate uh for age 16 to
24 is Up Up and Away over 20 percent and
that has been increasing year after year
after year not a good sign what are they
doing right now are they discouraged or
is there just not enough jobs we've got
a demographics problem and there's a lot
of issues Okay so let's talk about
Metals let's talk about resources this
is something big inside of China of
course but everywhere too EU is pushing
China to narrow the scope of metal
export controls so we've had China go
out there and basically say we do not
well you're gonna do this to us with the
semiconductors all right we're going to
push back because we got the rare earth
metals we are doing all these things
we're refining those rare earth metals
okay well we are going to put curves on
our exports but Europe is saying hey no
no don't do that let us let us have some
of that uh you know and and they're
talking about what they want to do and
so on concentration of EU raw material
supplies from China look at this heavy
Rare Earth elements 100
my goodness the Reliance on China
magnesium 97 light Rare Earth elements
85 lithium 79 okay look at lithium in
that case there batteries okay all of
the products computers your cell phones
uh your vehicles everything everything
is using a lithium battery or lithium
element you know in some fashion today
and we're talking about 79 of that the
vast majority of that coming from China
so you can't just say okay let's just go
to Vietnam let's just go to one of these
other countries to do business with that
because it just you just can't it's just
not enough Supply and there just isn't
enough refining capability so this is
what China is doing to try and maintain
status quo stick with us but if they're
shutting the door
this is going to be a problem this could
actively
um you know make the problem worse for
them and their growth if China is slow
watch out because that then affects the
entire world I'll tell you why okay
we'll look into that more chip leaders
head to Washington to lobby for China
rules relief anybody who's invested in
all these Nvidia companies and
everything else they are really
desperate okay because they need the
Chinese market they need it absolutely
so if you can't sell your chips as they
mention your Intel Qualcomm Nvidia
they're going and they're saying please
please don't please don't screw us over
if this goes through and they put more
restrictions on and this you know
there's just no selling to China for the
most advanced chips watch out for these
stocks it's gonna hit them hard why
because that's the froth coming off the
top all these investors put all their
speculators put all that money inside of
these companies now they can take a
profit so they're willing to sell that
hey I made 200 over the last couple
months I'm willing to sell or sell a
bunch of my
a bunch of my gains that's it watch this
very closely it's a geopolitical thing
but it's also something that relates to
you as an investor okay and we have this
China controls minerals that run the
world and it just fired a warning shot
at the U.S beijing's export restrictions
on two minerals this week show that is
willing to use its dominance to rock
Western Supply chains this is actually
from July 7th but I'm just showing you
it's all connected here and that is
really important that they're both going
they're hitting each other back and
forth I'm I'm concerned about it because
this is what happens you have to tear a
fours you have the you know the taxes
all these different things that go back
and forth and it's it's like it adds up
ads on top of each other China's first
warning shot on export controls causes a
27 jump in the price of gallium a metal
vital to Tech Industries I'm just trying
to show you this from all levels all
depths pay attention very closely okay
China's LNG liquid natural gas Imports
soar despite the global price dip isn't
that interesting we have something
that's been going up
um like it was going up like crazy
you're seeing a Slowdown potentially in
China and yet they are more more and
more importing do they expect the price
to go much higher are they just trying
to be more self-sufficient a lot of ways
to look at that but I wanted to show you
that because there are importing maybe
they need that energy maybe they want to
be a little bit less reliant on certain
countries or something you know it's up
in the air why they're doing so we could
speculate But ultimately I know for sure
that uh what we have seen in the last
little while has been that they seem to
be stockpiling a lot grains and other
things
okay and this is just talking about the
de-globalization as some suggest however
there are those who think that is
re-globalization minus China and that
different factories are being opened up
in other places I have said this before
where it's not exactly the case because
it really depends on
um what you look at it like you know
companies like apple can do that but
smaller and mid-sized companies cannot
do that they can't open up in India and
Vietnam as well because the logistics
the supply chain just is not good in
these other countries as well as it is
in China it's like depending on the
country 15th 20 years ahead so if you
want to actually you know maintain a
business that needs and pulls billions
of billions of dollars and you can't
just move that it's just not going to
work so the real point that I want to
make here is if China's slowing down
that means the whole world is slowing
down if China has a problem that means
the whole world has a problem their
growth the growth that we have seen in
the western world has really been put on
the back of China the you know the
manufacturer of the world we're shipping
cheap we are doing things that you just
can't do in other countries they ship
all of that labor overseas and made it
possible for things to run the way they
do in the rest of the world if they've
got a problem this impacts you imagine
the prices that you pay for everything
all kinds of different Goods everything
you know people they don't realize they
buy chicken made in the USA okay it's
not in many cases that Ultra processed
process type food it goes to China and
it comes back maybe it's grown in the
U.S those chickens they go over to China
they get processed in China and come
back if you can believe that I mean it's
crazy but that's what they do that's the
system that's what's been set up today
so I'm trying to tell you about this it
will impact you it will affect you and
there are things that you can do I talk
about that on I mean so many videos I've
got my playlist to look at I've also got
my Discord if you see that right here
Discord I've got a whole bunch of tips
in there and I'm adding to it I'm trying
to do my best on that as well as in the
mentorship we talk about all these
things that are coming the mentorship if
you want to take a look there's there's
some data in there if you if you want
but that's something that it's part of a
small group a small class that we have
twice a week right now and um for those
interested just just take a look I'm not
trying to sell you on that what I'm
saying is that there's a lot of
information available to you for free in
the Discord the link is in the
description I'll see you next time take
care